fixes of i18n on orders-overview.md (#443)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/guides/Getting-Started/orders-overview.md

slug: "orders-overview"
hidden: false
createdAt: "2020-09-21T22:46:46.589Z"
updatedAt: "2023-03-28t15:07:06.478z"
---

> **Help us improve our documentation!** Tell us about your experience with this article by completing [this form](https://forms.gle/fQoELRA1yfKDqmAb8).

This overview article covers the VTEX Order Management System (OMS), including relevant links from our developer documentation. In the following sections, you will find information about setting up and managing your orders, creating order integrations with external partners, and configuring optional settings.

### Importing orders from an ERP or Back office

> If your store has an ERP integration or another integration for managing orders, you will need to create an integration for the VTEX platform. The links below provide an overview of the order integration flow between a back-office system and a VTEX store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your store has an ERP integration or another integration for managing orders, you will need to create an integration with the VTEX platform. The links below provide an overview of the order integration flow between a back-office system and a VTEX store.
```

## Understanding order flow types

> The order flow describes the status, options, and actions throughout the life cycle of an order. On VTEX, there are four [order flow types](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/order-flow-and-status--tutorials_196):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order flow describes the status, possible flows, and actions throughout the life cycle of an order. On VTEX, there are four [order flow types](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/order-flow-and-status--tutorials_196):
```

### Marketplace flow

> The order flow is only visible to the store responsible for the sale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The marketplace order flow is only visible to the store responsible for the sale.
```

![marketplace_flow](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/vtexdocs/dev-portal-content@main/images/orders-overview-0.jpg)

### Seller flow

> The order flow is only visible to the store responsible for handling the order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The seller order flow is only visible to the store responsible for handling the order.
```

![seller_flow](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/vtexdocs/dev-portal-content@main/images/orders-overview-1.png)

### Complete flow

> The order flow is only visible to the store responsible for the sale and delivery. In this case, the store acts both as seller and marketplace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The complete order flow is only visible to the store responsible for the sale and delivery. In this case, the store acts both as seller and marketplace.
```

![complete_flow](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/vtexdocs/dev-portal-content@main/images/orders-overview-2.png)

### Chain flow

> The order flow is visible to the store acting as an intermediary between the marketplace and the seller. This flow is similar to the marketplace flow. However, the payment is only made to the marketplace, not to the store that acts as a chain. This flow is followed in [Multilevel Omnichannel Inventory](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/multilevel-omnichannel-inventory) sales cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chain order flow is visible to the store acting as an intermediary between the marketplace and the seller. This flow is similar to the marketplace flow. However, the payment is only made to the marketplace, not to the store that acts as a chain. This flow is followed in [Multilevel Omnichannel Inventory](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/multilevel-omnichannel-inventory) sales situations.
```

![chain_flow](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/vtexdocs/dev-portal-content@main/images/orders-overview-3.png)

## Creating an order integration

In the following sections, you will learn how to build order integrations with Feed and Hook. For example, this can be useful for developing an integration between your store ERP and the VTEX platform.

> We strongly recommend you to create an order integration using the [Orders Feed v3](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/orders-feed), instead of using the List orders API request or external services. If you already use an integration based on the API request, you should migrate to using the Feed. Keep in mind that this means changing the integration flow. To learn how to implement this change, see the [Set up order integration](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/docs/erp-integration-set-up-order-integration).

### Feed v.3
  

> The order feed is a list of order updates, meaning that an order status update will be included as a new item in the feed whenever there is an event in an order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Orders feed is a list of order updates, meaning that an order status update will be included as a new item in the feed whenever there is an event in an order.
```

### Hook

> Hook is a counterpart to Feed, which allows an integration to get order update data by sending items to a URL provided by the user in the hook configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hook works as a complement to Feed, because it allows an integration to consume order updates data by sending items to a URL provided by the user in the Hook configuration.
```

### Changing an order status

Every order has a life cycle registered as an [order flow](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/order-flow-and-status--tutorials_196), which describes the order status, options, and updates. For more information, see the links below.

- [Start handling order](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/orders-api#post-/api/oms/pvt/orders/-orderId-/start-handling)
- [Cancel order](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/orders-api#post-/api/oms/pvt/orders/-orderId-/cancel)

### Changing an order

> Changing orders is a feature that allows your store to change the items or prices of an order. For example, this allows you to handle eventual changes due to customer mistakes or product unavailability. To learn more, see the links below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changing orders is a feature that allows your store to edit the items or prices of an order. For example, this allows you to handle eventual changes due to customer mistakes or product unavailability. To learn more, see the links below.
```

- [Change order](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/change-order)
- [Register change on order](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/orders-api#post-/api/oms/pvt/orders/-orderId-/changes)

### Changing seller

Another seller can be selected to fulfill a given order after the original seller canceled it. The period when this can be done is called the change seller window. You can use the endpoints below for this.

- [Get window to change seller](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/orders-api#get-/api/checkout/pvt/configuration/window-to-change-seller)

> - [Update window to change seller](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/reference/updatewindowtochangeseller-1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Update window to change seller](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/orders-api#post-/api/checkout/pvt/configuration/window-to-change-seller)
```

In other words, the feature allows VTEX sellers to sell products from its franchises or white label sellers in a marketplace, without the need to set up the integration with the desired marketplace. For marketplaces, this means selling products from their direct sellers and also physical stores and white label sellers associated with those sellers in a scalable way.

> For more information, see the article [Multilevel Omnichannel Inventory](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/multilevel-omnichannel-inventory--7M1xyCZWUyCB7PcjNtOyw4).

## Integrating orders from an external marketplace

A VTEX store can act as a [seller](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/configuring-a-seller-on-vtex-marketplace--6g045OkRSjNpqhkExbQRlP) and a [marketplace](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/configuring-vtex-marketplace--7splyp5MqIyt2Iyz5jsNzb) in relation to another VTEX store or an external partner. If you are an [external marketplace](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/docs/external-marketplace-integration-guide) that wants to integrate with VTEX sellers, see the links below to learn how to develop a custom connector for the VTEX architecture and seller orders.

> - [Order Integration overview](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/docs/external-marketplace-integration-orders)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Order Integration overview](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/external-marketplace-integration-orders)
```

> - [New Order Integration](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/docs/external-marketplace-integration-collect-orders)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [New Order Integration](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/external-marketplace-integration-collect-orders)
```

> - [Update Order Status](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/docs/external-marketplace-update-order-status)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Update Order Status](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/external-marketplace-update-order-status)
```

> - [How to update the status of a canceled order on VTEX](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/docs/external-marketplace-integration-canceled-orders)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [How to update the status of a canceled order on VTEX](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/external-marketplace-integration-canceled-orders)
```

## Adding optional configurations

There are additional configurations available for you to manage your store orders. This allows you to take advantage of other VTEX features, such as [inStore](https://help.vtex.com/en/tracks/instore-getting-started-and-setting-up--zav76TFEZlAjnyBVL5tRc), [VTEX DO](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/vtex-do-interface--7KMbRL4OslN8DTX9oiuCiu), [B2B](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/b2b-overview--5vb9SNXhX2bZnkpAh7ADdC), and [Master Data](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/master-data-introduction).

### VTEX inStore

> - [Enabling order filter by sales associate](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/docs/enable-order-filter-by-sales-associate)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Enabling order filter by sales associate](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/enable-order-filter-by-sales-associate)
```
